---
title: K3s
description:
parent: Step 2 (kubernetes)
grand_parent: Kubernetes & Dynatrace Workshop
---

## K3s

These steps will add k3s kubernetes to your bowl.  You should already have an ubuntu 20.04 server running from [step 1](step1).

### Login to your ubuntu server

Login to your ubuntu computer.  If you used **multipass**, login via `multipass shell DTkube`.

### Install k3s kubernetes

```bash
curl -sfL https://get.k3s.io | INSTALL_K3S_EXEC="--no-deploy traefik" sh -
```

> - The curl command downloads k3s & sh - executes the installer.  
> - The K3S_KUBECONFIG_MODE install option makes the kube config file accessible to non-admins.  It's a shortcut for this workshop and wouldn't be used in production.  You'll see a couple of warnings about this later- but for a lab environment it's just fine.

### Export the KUBE config file for later.

Create a folder to save your KUBE config.

```bash
mkdir ~/.kube
```

Set permissions to allow your account only (this prevents security warnings later).

```bash
sudo chmod -R 700  ~/.kube
```

Exporting the config allows kubernetes to find your installation.

```bash
sudo cp /etc/rancher/k3s/k3s.yaml ~/.kube/config
```

> We're copying the k3s yaml file to a location you can access without needing to run sudo every time.

Ensure you have access to the exported config file.

```bash
sudo chown -R $USER ~/.kube
```

> We're setting the owner of the .kube folder and everything inside it (recursively with **-R**) to you ($USER).

### Install Kubecontrol

Download.

```bash
curl -LO https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubectl
```

Install.

```bash
sudo install -o root -g root -m 0755 kubectl /usr/local/bin/kubectl
```

> kubecontrol is the controller manager for kubernetes.  We'll use it through the workshop for adding/changing the kubernetes installation.  Similar to before, curl downloads the software and launches a bash shell for installation.

### (todo) update HELM?

helm repo add nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
helm install nginx nginx/ingress-nginx --set controller.hostNetwork=true,controller.service.type="",controller.kind=DaemonSet

## :checkered_flag: CHECKPOINT

Run `kubectl get nodes` and ensure you see a 'ready' response for your control-plane.  If you get an error, it's typically a miss on on exporting the configuration.  

## Next Steps

If kubernetes is up and running, Congratulations!  You're well on your way to a full-featured Kubernetes installation.  Let's add **Rancher** in [Step 3](step3).

### Recycling this ingredient

Run the command below to remove kubernetes.

```bash
/usr/local/bin/k3s-uninstall.sh
```

<script src="{{ base.url | prepend: site.url }}/assets/js/copy.js"></script>
